Modify rule S3249: LaYC format (#2323)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S3249/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

> Making a `base` call when overriding a method is generally a good idea, but not in the case of https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.gethashcode[`GetHashCode`] and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.equals[`Equals`] for classes that directly extend `Object`. These methods are based on the object reference, which means that there are no two objects that use those `base` methods and can ever be equal or have the same hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making a `base` call when overriding a method is generally a good idea, but not in the case of https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.gethashcode[`GetHashCode`] and https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.equals[`Equals`] for classes that directly extend `Object`. These methods are based on the object's reference, meaning that no two objects using those `base` methods can be equal or have the same hash.
```

Author: I did not apply the `using`.
I think it's better to use simple perfect tense as it's something that is generally true and we don't try to say that is happening right now.

Reviewer: How about:
```
These methods are based on the object's reference, meaning that no two objects that use those `base` methods can be equal or have the same hash.
```

=== Exceptions

This rule doesn't report on guard conditions checking for reference equality.

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

> [source,csharp]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,csharp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
```

Author: I did not add this because we have 2 compliant examples and I remember that it does not work.
@gregory-paidis-sonarsource  is this the case?

Reviewer 2: I am pretty sure it does not work.
[click here (internal)](https://discuss.sonarsource.com/t/support-for-multiple-compliant-code-snippets-in-the-rspec-code-diffs/14644)

----
var m1 = new MyClass(2);
var m2 = new MyClass(2);

m1.Equals(m2) // False
m1.GetHashCode(); // 43942919
m2.GetHashCode(); // 59941935

class MyClass
{
    private readonly int x;
    public MyClass(int x) =>
        this.x = x;

    public override bool Equals(Object obj) =>
        base.Equals();

    public override int GetHashCode() =>
        x.GetHashCode() ^ base.GetHashCode(); // Noncompliant, base.GetHashCode returns a code based on the objects reference
}
----

==== Compliant solution

> [source,csharp]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,csharp,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
```

Author: Same

----
var m1 = new MyClass(2);
var m2 = new MyClass(2);

m1.Equals(m2) // True
m1.GetHashCode(); // 2
m2.GetHashCode(); // 2

class MyClass
{
    private readonly int x;
    public MyClass(int x) =>
        this.x = x;

    public override bool Equals(Object obj) =>
        this.x == ((MyClass)obj).x;

    public override int GetHashCode() =>
        x.GetHashCode()
}
----

[source,csharp]
----
class MyClass
{
  private readonly int x;

  public MyClass(int x) =>
    this.x = x;

  public override bool Equals(object obj)
  {
    if (base.Equals(obj)) // Compliant, it's a guard condition.
    {
      return true;
    }
    ...
  }

  public override int GetHashCode() =>
    x.GetHashCode()
}

> ----

Reviewer: I would move this to the `Exception` section. It is more relevant there. Also, chaining code blocks like this [is causing issues and should be avoided](https://sonarsource.slack.com/archives/C059FQ512EA/p1688030499161979).
Alternatively, you could include the guard statement in the `Noncompliant` code.

Author: Sounds good - I'll move it to the exception and then I'll apply the comments above too.

== Resources

=== Documentation

> * https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.gethashcode?view=net-7.0[Object.GetHashCode Method]
> * https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.equals[Object.Equals Method]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Microsoft Learn - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.gethashcode?view=net-7.0[Object.GetHashCode Method]
* Microsoft Learn - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.object.equals[Object.Equals Method]
```
